So the first question we have here
is that should we write a test for
every bug that shows up?
Generally speaking, right,
I think the easy answer would you say yes,
of course, right.
If it's a bug, then go ahead and
just write a test for it.
But I think the thing that's important
right when we're talking about solutions
that scale and not simply just patching
things with a band aid Is understanding
really at the core, like,
what exactly is the bug entail, and
figuring out what you're
actually trying to test.
Because if you're simply trying to
patch like a UI bug, for example,
that sort of leaves us at the risk of
basically exposed to like, if it's caused
by a deeper rooted issue, then you're
basically testing the wrong thing.
And so that's why I would basically
caution against immediately saying,
just write the test for the thing that
broke and at least spending some time to
do that investigation of like also
like especially with end-to-end tests,
is this worth doing like,
is this worth adding to our build time?
Because what you can do is like when you
have error monitoring tools like century
for example, you can allow it to then
sort of at least track things so
that if certain things really recur that
often that you then can not like collect
those error reports and
basically write the tests for
something that happened that often,
but at the same time, it's that buggy,
then probably we need to figure
out like what caused it.
And so what I'm trying to say here is
that when it comes to writing tests,
you really have to weigh the pros and cons
of what it'll do to the build pipeline,
because I don't know about you all, but
I've been in plenty of apps where I
submitted my pull requests and
it took like 30 minutes for
the test to run, for me to know if
like my PR is even valid or not.
And so when you have tasks that takes so
long to run,
you basically start to build distrust
between the developers and test because we
all know that especially at the end of
the day when it comes to integrating test
into our continuous integration pipeline,
that if it takes a long time to load,
and then you find out that,
by the way, we need this hot fix,
developers will skip that test
immediately and then just like ship.
Because the idea is that
you're hoping that,
that will be the thing that will fix it.
And then at that point, you have
bypassed the value of those tests.
And so this is why when it comes to
choosing what tests are right, speed is of
utmost importance as far as like making
sure that they still run quickly and
that the time spent, like making those
tests work is still valuable to the team.
Because we have to remember too that like,
while there is a single
bug that we're trying to fix, the impact
we have scales across the entire team,
especially when we're talking production
grade, enterprise level application,
this means you are clogging it up for
however many ex developers that
are going to be using this.
So if we realize our impacts right of what
we're doing, then we can be more basically
like intentional about where we're trying
like how our efforts are best put forth.
So the question here is around the sort
of a lot of departments have, we have
automated tests, right that developers
write and then we have manual testers.
And so if we assume that we've written
that 20% credo effect where we're covering
the key 80% that we want to focus on, like
where might manual testers fall into that?
And so in my experience manual testers
are really good at thinking of things
that pushing the edge cases on things.
And so those are sometimes things like
if you have like an entry field for
the dollar amount that you're
depositing into a payment app,
that they actually try to do things
like add special characters.
They're trying to break it by
going to negative numbers and
seeing what they can do.
And so in some ways, I would say that
the value for the manual testers is almost
like if you haven't heard like chaos
engineering, their goal is to try to
figure out ways to break it, right, like
outsmart the developers in scenarios that,
to be honest, most people will probably
try to do and does it still work?
So for example, if all you're
relying on on the front end is
to disable a button is let's say
a simple disabled attribute, but
you don't do any back end
validation to submit that form.
Like the manual testers
are the ones who are gonna,
this is where like the technical
competency comes into play.
They'll go in and I'm sure some of you
have done this as a web developers,
go into the source code, disable that and
still try to submit it through.
And sometimes that is that is helpful
because we know that the form
is working and it's just someone didn't
like enable the button correctly.
But these are like sort of the flaws that
like manual testers and sort of think of
when it comes to pushing the boundaries
on what our tests might not cover.
And in these cases we might
not think of as developers.